# IBMGraphicalDataMapGenerator
Standalone IBM Graphical Data Mapper generation utility to accelerate the creation of map specification language maps based on transformation meta-data modelled in either a comma delimited CSV(XLS)file, in a json format or an XML format based on WESB BO Map
#

This utility uses either 
1) the standalone DFDL Java parser to parse a comma delimited (CSV) format file OR 
2) a json to java object converter run against a json file OR
3) a JAXB marshaller/unmarshaller run against an XML file (WESB BO Map) 

containing the definition of a transformation mapping exercise that needs to be performed. 

The data in the parsed/converted object is then passed to JAXB code that executes against the IBM GDM XML schema (msl.xsd) to produce an IBM Graphical Data Map that can be used in IBM Integration Bus by default. However, if opened in IBM Integration Designer the target runtime can be changed from xquery to XSLT in order to be used with Datapower.(I have not tested against Datapower). It is also possible this tooling could be used in conjunction with zOS connect. 

This utility is a work in progess and at this point in time it will attempt to do the following:
1) Create basic IBM GDM Maps with a single input and output schema
2) Perform element association.
3) Supports move assigns and fn:concat (note concat is 2 input fields to one output field only)

Therefore, at this point in time the utility represents a rudimentary capability that demonstrates how to use meta-data (in this example in the form of a CSV, json or XML file) to define a transformation and then use that data to generate an IBM Graphical Data Map. 

The ParseMetaSerialMSL.java class is the executable code and provides demonstration on how to use the standalone DFDL Java parser and leverage JaxB Java code against JaxB Objects generated by the IIB Toolkit from the IBM GDM MSL.XSD XML schema.

ParseMetaSerialMSL.java reads the IOMapModelMetaCSV.xsd (DFDL model) and IOMapModelMeta.csv the source file containing the definitions of the mapping to be performed from the GDMGenerator project. It writes out a inmodel_outmodel.map file. The .map file and the XSDs for the input and output schemas are in the GeneratedMapTargetApp application project.

The ParseJSONSerialMSL.java class is the executable code and provides demonstration on how to convert a json file to java object and leverage JaxB Java code against JaxB Objects generated by the IIB Toolkit from the IBM GDM MSL.XSD XML schema.

ParseJSONSerialMSL.java reads the IOMapModelMetaCSV.json source file containing the definitions of the mapping to be performed from the GDMGenerator project. It writes out a inmodel_outmodelfrom_JSON.map file. The .map file and the XSDs for the input and output schemas are in the GeneratedMapTargetApp application project.

The ParseBOXMLSerialMSL.java class is the executable code and provides demonstration on how to unmarshal an XML file using JaxB and then and leverage JaxB Java code against JaxB Objects generated by the IIB Toolkit from the IBM GDM MSL.XSD XML schema.

ParseBOXMLSerialMSL.java reads the WESB Business Object Map file WESB_mesBlastBlockMessageType_To_Blastblock_Submap.map source file containing the definitions of the mapping to be performed from the GDMGenerator project. It writes out a WESB_mesBlastBlockMessageType_To_Blastblock_Submap.map file. The .map file and the XSDs for the input and output schemas are in the GeneratedMapTargetApp application project.

The IBM Integration Community article "IBM Graphical Data Map (GDM) Generator Tool (Prototype)" has more information on running the tool. See article at link:

https://developer.ibm.com/integration/blog/2017/03/20/ibm-graphical-data-map-gdm-generator-tool-prototype/

There is an ObjectAssociation java project included. This code can be used in conjunction with an IIB Pattern to associate the generate map files with IIB Mapping Nodes in IIB Message flows.

The original ObjectAssociation pattern was shipped with the IIB-WESB-BOMAP-CONV repository. I am in the process of updating it. I have removed the pattern from this material (but left the Java source) until I have completed this exercise.


If you wish to contribute please email Dave - davearno@au1.ibm.com
